Add cumulative_sum pipeline aggregation. (#9636)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _aggregations/pipeline/cumulative-sum.md

---
layout: default
title: Cumulative sum
parent: Pipeline aggregations
has_children: false
nav_order: 60
---

# Cumulative sum aggregations

> The `cumulative_sum` aggregation is a parent aggregation that calculates the cumulative sum of each bucket of a previous aggregation.

Reviewer: Should the 2nd "of" be "in" or "from"?

Reviewer 2: We can change to "across the buckets of a previous aggregation" to be more precise.

> The `cumulative_sum` aggregation is a parent aggregation that calculates the cumulative sum of each bucket of a previous aggregation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `cumulative_sum` aggregation is a parent aggregation that calculates the cumulative sum across the buckets of a previous aggregation.
```

A cumulative sum is a sequence of partial sums of a given sequence. For example, the cumulative sums of the sequence `{a,b,c,…}` are `a`, `a+b`, `a+b+c`, and so on. You can use the cumulative sum to visualize the rate of change of a field over time.

## Parameters

The `cumulative_sum` aggregation takes the following parameters.

| Parameter             | Required/Optional | Data type       | Description |
| :--                   | :--               |  :--            | :--         |
| `buckets_path`        | Required          | String          | The path of the aggregation buckets to be aggregated. See [Buckets path]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/aggregations/pipeline/index#buckets-path). |
| `format`              | Optional          | String          | A [DecimalFormat](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/text/DecimalFormat.html) formatting string. Returns the formatted output in the aggregation's `value_as_string` property. |

## Example

> The following example creates a date histogram with a one-month interval from the OpenSearch Dashboards e-commerce sample data. The `sum` subaggregation calculates the sum of all bytes for each month. Finally, the `cumulative_sum` aggregation calculates the cumulative number of bytes for each month bucket:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example creates a date histogram with a one-month interval from the OpenSearch Dashboards e-commerce sample data. The `sum` subaggregation calculates the sum of all bytes for each month. Finally, the `cumulative_sum` aggregation calculates the cumulative number of bytes for each month's bucket:
```
